## Inheritance, Enums and Exceptions Test

1. Which of the following is true?

    a. If a class extends an abstract class it must override
    all abstract methods.

    b. A class can extend one or more classes.

    c. If a class implements an interface it must not override
    all abstract methods.

    d. A class can implement one or more interfaces.

    e. Abstract classes must contain abstract methods.

    f. Interfaces can contain abstract methods.

#### 15 POINTS


2. True or false for Java enums?

    a. Enums can have public constructors.

    b. A value from an enum is accessed in a static way.

    c. Enums can have private fields and methods.

    d. You can override the enum constructor.

    e. Enum constructor cannot have parameters.

    f. It is mandatory to use enums in other class with a static import.

    g. Enum offers a predefined set of values.

    h. You can have a main method in an enum:
    ```public static void main(String[] args){ ... }```

#### 25 POINTS


3. Having the following code:

    ```
    public enum Number {
        ONE(1), TWO(2), THREE(3);
        private int value;

        private Number(int value) {
            this.value = value;
        }

        public String toString() {
            return value + "";
        }
    }
    ```

    a. Which method call gets all of the Number instances.
    What type does this method return.

    b. Having,

    ```String numberThree = "three";```

    How can we convert numberThree to Number.THREE?

    c. What will be printed by

    ```System.out.println(TWO);```

    d. What will be printed by

      System.out.println(ONE.getClass().getSimpleName());

    e. What will this print?

    ```System.out.println(Arrays.asList(Number.values()));```

    f. What will be printed by

    ```System.out.println(TWO.name());```


#### 30 points


4. Exceptions

    a. Which is the base class for all Java exceptions?

    b. Which are the Java main exceptions categories?

    c. Which exceptions are verified at compile time?

    d. What kind of exceptions are
    java.lang.NullPointerException,
    java.lang.javArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException,
    java.lang.RuntimeException?

    e. How can we create a custom unchecked exception?

    f. How can we create a custom checked exception?

    g. How can we assure that a code block does not throw?

    h. The code within the method addItem can trow an Error.
    The method does not return anything and does not have any parameters.
    How does the addItem signature looks like?

#### 40 points



## TOTAL 110 POINTS

## GOOD LUCK!




